fencing your animals is no longer the
back-breaking work it used to be electro
braids is so simple that except for
digging postholes the only tools you'll
need to install the braid fence can be
carried in a canvas tool bag electro
brake fence is the permanent electric
fence which is safe secure simple
installing electro braids will save you
time money trees and problem this
installation video will explain how to
install a micro braids or small paddocks
medium pastures and a large pastures
proper size paddocks and pastures are
important for the care and well-being of
your animals fights are bound to happen
with overcrowding the larger the paddock
the less stress and the less chance of a
force getting hurt and no sharp corners
where a horse can get trapped by another
horse a proper sized paddock or pasture
fence with electro braids well you're
going to have happy horses
start by setting your corner posts and
end posts electro braids is a tension
system that means you should brace
corner posts according to the contour
the land and soil conditions whether you
choose h bracing or h bracing with a
four board look a rounded corner system
correct bracing will be the backbone to
your electro braids fence
now with the posts in place use a jig or
ruler and Mark the posts for spacing
each line of braid space the other three
lines a foot apart or to whatever
spacing best suits your animals if
smaller animals are fenced with larger
animals simply widen all the spacing an
equal amount in order to narrow the
space between the bottom braid and the
ground if you have predators such as
coyote wolf cat or bear an extra line of
braids may help to keep them away from
your horses now Center the insulators on
your marks use two and a half inch
screws to attach the insulator to the
fence post installing a braid is simple
using the end straight from the reel
thread the braid through the insulator
and clamp it tight leave approximately
two inches outside the split bolt
connector make sure the connector is
tight to avoid slippage
now start fencing carry the reel with
you on a small paddock fencing with
Electra braid is as easy as walking the
perimeter of your paddock or field at
the next corner post remove the pin lock
and roller and slip the braid behind the
roar replace the pin lock and you're on
your way to the next post do the same
thing at all of the corner posts and
watch how easy the braid changes
direction it travels freely around the
roar this first strand of braid between
all of the corner posts is a guide that
tells you where to dig your inline posts
using your guide start digging and
install your inline posts there won't be
as many posts as on a traditional fence
in line posts are only needed every 50
feet at the end post pull out as much
slack as you can by hand to tighten the
fence further you'll need to use the
Electra braid tensioning kit it's easy
to assemble tie the s hook to one end of
the ratchet rope
insert the other end of the ratchet rope
into the ratchet insert the rope
opposite to the release switch around
the ratchet wheel and back out in the
opposite direction tie a must to prevent
the end of the rope from slipping back
through the ratchet and you're done
attach the ratchet system to the post
now tighten the braid with the ratchet
system
keep going
tighten until the ratchet won't pull any
tighter depending on how much slack you
pulled out by hand you may have to
repeat this tightening process several
times now clamp the line with a split
bolt connector leave approximately two
inches of braid outside the clamp then
tape cut and singe the end always tape
before you cut it prevents frame
singeing prevents fraying after the tape
wears off return to the beginning post
and attach the ratchet system and
tension the braid
release the split bolt connector take
out the slack and retighten the bolt
that's all there is to it install the
remaining lines in the same way in
different soils and in different
climates posts can shift and cause the
braid to relax all you have to do is
simply reset and tamp your posts and
retention the braid be sure to tighten
each line before starting the next
Electra braid allows you to work with
the lay of the land streams are easy to
cross Electra braid accommodates all
sorts of terrain including dips and
Rises installing electro braids on
medium sized pasture is every bit as
easy because of the longer run in a
medium-sized pasture you need to tighten
the line from corner post to corner post
you'll need a second ratchet system to
do this after installing a single line
of braid and clamping the braid at the
end post or gate post go to the first
corner post and tighten the line pull
out the slack then tighten the line with
a ratchet system leave the ratchet and
clamp attached to hold the line tight
proceed to the second corner post and
repeat the tightening process with a
second set of ratchet and clamps leave
them attached to hold this section of
line tight return to the first corner
post remove the ratchet and clamp and
use it to tighten the braid at the third
corner post you're simply working your
way around the paddock and tightening at
each